hi you guys what's up and welcome back
to the small Linux channel I'm squinting
because I forgot but I never can open my
eyes I have this win ting problem it's
so funny if you look in like any of my
Instagram photos when I'm outside I'm
just I cannot keep my eyes open I have
like really big pupils but I wanted to
be outside today because it's kind of
nice and I thought if it was overcast
that I'd be fine but so bear with me as
I squint at you for the next few minutes
so today I am chilling on my rooftop
this is McCarren Park in the background
I don't use this group as much as I
really should or could but it's a
beautiful spot and today I wanted to
share some tips with you guys that have
been coming up for the girls in my group
program so recently the girls that are
going through petite power the May
sessions they've just gone through one
month they are experiencing and this is
a good problem to have that their wrist
strength is not or their grip strength
and wrist strength will get into both is
is sort of not strong enough to lift the
weights that they can now lift so
meaning they go to deadlift like their
legs are really strong but then the
weakest factor is the wrist and it's
limiting their ability to then progress
their weights right good problem to have
and it's very specific to petite women
because obviously being shorter we have
proportionately smaller hands then well
to our bodies and with that wrist so our
wrist our hands are a tad bit shorter so
today I'm going to talk with you guys
about some things that you can do to
to overcome this and how to integrate it
into your workout so that you don't have
to be limited by your wrist strength
okay so I'm gonna set this up here I
brought some things to show you give me
one minute oh oh wait so all set up here
you can see I have a couple things on
the table and I'm going to go through
each of them there's one thing missing
but I'm gonna go through each of them
and talk about what might be the right
option for you if this is something
you're experiencing as a fatigue and
basically let me know below if this is
something you have experienced does a
petite
I find it fairly common especially if
you are already kind of like starting to
work out or you've been working out for
a little while and you lift weights
you'll notice that you will hit a kind
of a moment in time where your wrist or
hand grip is just kind of too small to
get the job done that you want to get
done like you want to lift happy and
everything and that's totally fine and
I'll tell you guys a story about this in
a minute let me start with the one
that's not here on the table there's
three things you can do to help your
grip so that you can lift heavier and
not have your wrist be a limiting factor
in your making progress so the first one
are training gloves I can work out
gloves and is I don't have any because I
don't like them but you guys have
probably seen people wear them at the
gym to be immodest the reason why I
don't have them is because if you only
want to use or you only want to
supplement your grip with certain
exercises which is appropriate for me
because you don't want to you know what
I'll lose your grip strength over all
right we want to be functionally fit we
want to be in a really good shape all
around and that includes grip strength
because it's a very functional
measure of fitness for example carrying
grocery bag that's great if you ever
want to be able to do a pull-up that's
unassisted that's grip so I like don't
like gloves because generally you would
put them on and then wear them for your
whole workout and you may not want to
supplement your grip for every exercise
however that is an option for people who
like like the look and people who just
do want to wear their grips that will
you know have a grip help with the whole
time probably really good if you're a
petite woman who has like even smaller
hands than what's proportionate to your
body or your grip is just really weak or
your wrists are like incredibly small
then you might need to supplement her
grip all the time but I doubt it I think
you can get your Shapira pursue per
strong without it so that's option one
option two is talk so I have here some
pure talk uncut I do use this depending
on what I'm doing this is pretty pretty
classic like gymnastics sports probably
the og of the grip world here it's cheap
and you know the pros are you know you
can put it on just your calluses or just
the parts of your hands and torn up
helps prevent blistering helps you grip
better and it's not like total grip
there's still you still have to train a
little bit so it's a good medium the
kind of cons of it is it's a messy which
can kind of be fun and kind of badass
you're into that
no I am it's fun to like get kind of
messy but if you're right like an
all-black outfit it's probably going to
get like all over your outfit so that's
really the only cons and it's it's a
good option something and I like you've
been better than this it's called liquid
chalk and it's basically um it comes in
a tube and you squirt it out into your
hand and then you go like this and you
let air dry house alcohol in and go so
if you don't like that smell are too
harsh watch out um and then you kind of
do this and it dries just like this but
it's in a more controlled way and you
will end up like inhaling in when you're
like patting it on so I like liquid
chalk I like this regular chalk and the
time so it uses is mostly dead lifting
like if I was in a in a phase where I
was lifting extremely heavy I'm not
right now I'm doing a lot of my per
trophy and I'm lifting heavy but it's
still not anywhere near like my you know
capacity to lift if you're training
really heavy that's gonna be really
helpful in it's cheap and the third
option this is my top preference are
called straps okay so they look kind of
weird I'll show you up close to they're
just a straight strap the side has a
small hole in it
and then this is padded for comfort
because what's going to end up happening
is
you're gonna put it through here and I
brought a dumbbell so I can show you the
application you're going to have a way
thread it through and you put it on your
wrist these are my favorite you're gonna
pull it tight on your wrist and you want
the strap to be going in between the
thumb so if you had to wrap the way I
just did it's time to go who would be
going the other way and that won't help
you so you want to pull it tight and
then what you'll do is when you have a
bar or anything technically you can do
with dumbbells - I mean if you're always
doing really heavy dumbbells I would say
just switch to a barbell work for your
deadlift or whatever overhead press but
if you're and you wouldn't really need
this for overhead presses it's mostly
like pull exercises so what you do is
you're gonna put it underneath see how I
looped it underneath the barbell or
dumbbell and then you wrap it around and
then you grip down and then you can kind
of I like to say like Revit like a
motorcycle not that I've really never
been the front seen driver on a
motorcycle but I would imagine you know
that's how goes rev it up so you put it
on and then when you do go to pull up
you have the support see how like my
hand doesn't have to be attached you
have the support of not just your wrist
for your whole arm which is going to be
a lot stronger than our wrists and our
keys
this is my favorite because it just
feels the most comfortable for me if
your wrists are a lot tinier than Meade
that means my
be comfortable you kind of have to
figure out what works for you I find
this is the most comfortable I feel like
really comfy lifting weights and when I
do lift with straps I can lift so much
heavier probably a good 10 15 pounds
like it gets maybe even more I don't
know I never looked at the actual
difference but this is really useful if
you're trying to remember
so some commentary on straps and oh the
joys of New York City or just a few
calls so some things that that's the
story I wanted to share with you oh it's
getting sending her out also and I like
cannot see anything I wanted to share
with you that when I first got into
fitness I followed all the rules great I
followed all the rules that were the
rules for people of average or taller
height and that got me absolutely
nowhere
one of the rules that is kind of
unwritten slash trainers spoke this to
me verbally when I first was getting
started and you know you're looking to
learn from people they would say oh we
don't use training stuff like we don't
use wrist wraps or glove training gloves
because it weakens your grip and also
it's not a true measure of strength if
your deadlift is like I don't know
random number 200 pounds not that that's
what I'm lifting right now problem
like 135 something low and like
maintainable but if you're lifting your
your highest and you're using straps a
lot of the traditional fitness heads
would say you're using shops and you
couldn't lift that way without them so
it's cheating I don't know about you
guys but I'm here for me I'm not
competing with anybody I'm not trying to
show off I'm just trying to enjoy the
gym get stronger as a woman but a woman
and feel good in my body so if this is
gonna do that then find I don't need I
don't care about like any of these these
ideas about cheating or not being strong
I mean within the fitness industry
there's so many different communities so
I can see how in an industry or a
community within fitness we're competing
is a big part of the of the sport like
they're really literally competing like
their weightlifter powerlifters then
yeah straps are not allowed in the
competition and that makes sense why
would you train with straps if you have
to compete without that man just said
you have a failure but if we're just us
doing our thing and having fun then
that's what these are for and they'll
help you train the rest of your body and
progress without being limited by the
lowest common denominator the lowest
point which is our wrist ring so you
know this is like a common theme in my
fitness journey and also in building out
smolitics is that when I followed the
rules that they always told me or they
tell people for taller people or for
other what was right for other people it
just never worked and a lot of that was
because we have special considerations
and that's fine it doesn't make us like
any less strong or any less legit in the
gym and yes today I just say like fm I'm
gonna do me I'm gonna teach my girls
what works best for our body type what
helps us reach our goals what helps us
feel healthy and this is one of those
things where like go ahead and use this
it's gonna be fun or you're gonna like
hit your goals faster you're gonna lift
heavier so yeah I want to share these
three things with you guys let me know
if you've tried any of them and if you
have had this problem before like if you
found or wondered about your grip
strength being like the limiting factor
for your continued progress I want to
hear about it
and yeah you guys go be powerful I'll
see you soon in the next video and have
a great day bye